Practice

For this set of questions, open up the file called cards.html in Chrome, then open the developer console. There should be a variable defined called cards. You can confirm this by typing it at the console.

cards;
//=> Array[5000]
This contains 5000 card objects, randomly generated by a function that you'll write a little later. Interact with the console and answer the following questions.

Which suit appears the most frequently?

Which rank appears the most frequently?

How many times does the ace of spades appear? What about the two of clubs?

Can you think of a way to determine which card appears the most frequently? Obviously, you can repeat the process above for all 52 combinations, but is there an automated way you can do it? By the end of all of the subsequent exercises, you should be able to do this using a single function.

For the next set of questions, open up the file tweets.html in Chrome, then open the developer console. There should be a variable defined called tweets. You can confirm this by typing it at the console.

tweets;
//=> Array[500]
This is an array that contains a random sample of 500 tweets from the afternoon of Sunday, October 26, 2014. Using our favorite array methods (map, filter, reduce, some, and every methods) answer the following questions.

Create an array that only contains only the tweet texts that contain the word "awesome" (upper or lower case). How many tweets are in the array?

How many of the tweets contains URLs in them? (You can just look for "http:" as a substring).

How many of the tweets are associated with users who have underscores ("_") in their screen name?

What is the screen name of the user with the most followers?

The "statuses_count" property of a user object contains the number of tweets that the user has tweeted. How many users have tweeted exactly 1 tweet? What are their screen names?

What is the average number of followers among those users associated with tweets that contain "lol" (case insensitive)?
